# Implementation-of-RC4-Cryptography-Algorithm
At the beginning of RC4 encryption/decryption, the binary key is used to initialize the S-box 
array (S) through the Key Scheduling Algorithm (KSA). Simultaneously, the plaintext is 
prepared for encryption or decryption, awaiting the generation of the keystream by the PseudoRandom Generation Algorithm (PRGA).
#Key array with binary inputs = K and Plain Text with binary inputs=Plain Text
# Initialize the state vector array = S
• KSA Algorithm: The Key Scheduling Algorithm (KSA) in RC4 initializes the S-box 
array based on the provided key, shuffling its elements to create the initial permutation. 
This permutation serves as the foundation for generating the keystream used in 
subsequent encryption or decryption operations. Algorithm:
j=0
N=length of S
for i=0 to N do
j=(j+S[i]+K[i])%N
swap S[i] and S[j]
end for
• PRGA Algorithm: The Pseudo-Random Generation Algorithm (PRGA) in RC4 
generates a keystream by continually shuffling elements of the S-box array based on 
the key. It outputs a stream of pseudorandom bytes, which are XORed with the plaintext 
or ciphertext to perform encryption or decryption, respectively. Algorithm:
Set i and j back to 0
N=length of S
for i=i+1 to length of plain_text
j=(j+S[i]) % N
t=(S[i]+S[j])% N
Keystream = S[t]
end for
• Encryption: In RC4 encryption, the generated keystream from the PRGA is XORed 
with the plaintext to produce the ciphertext, obscuring the original message while 
maintaining its confidentiality. Algorithm:
Cipher Text = (Plain Text) XOR (Keystream)
• Decryption: During decryption in RC4, the same keystream generated by the PRGA is 
XORed with the ciphertext to recover the original plaintext, effectively reversing the 
encryption process. This operation relies on the correct key to produce the accurate 
plaintext output from the ciphertext. Algorithm:
Plain Text = (Cipher Text) XOR (Keystream)

